spring core interview questions.


1. What is Dependency Injection?

Most java classes are dependent on large number of other classes. For example, a clientservices will
depend on ClientDAO to get teh data from database. Before Springframework, ClientService class would
directly crate an instance of ClientDAO class using the code like new ClientDAO() this introduces tight
coupling between ClientService and CLientDAO. If I want ClientSerivces to use some other data instead 
of that provided by clientDao we need to reimplments ClientServices.

This is where Spring framework comes in. It removes tight coupling between classes. In above example.
Spring framework would inject ClientDAO into clientServices class. This concept is called 
Dependnecy Injection or Inversion of Control.

If needed( when writing a unit test) we can ask spring framework to inject a different class(when has sae
interface as ClientDao).


2. Why is Spring one of the most popular java related frameworks?

Spring framework enables development of loosely coupled classes based on well defined interfaces(DI, IOC).
It makes writing testable code sample. Beauty of Spring Framework is that it provides great integration
support with other non spring open source frameworks- In case you would want to integrate with framework
like AspectJ instead of SpringAOP or struts Spring framework is built upon loosely couple spring module
enabling us to pick and choose the specific aspect of the spring module we would like to use.
This Flexibility is what makes Spring framework one of most popular Java Frameworks.



3. What are the different moudles in Spring Framework?

The Core package provides
  IOC
  Dependency Injection
BeanFacgtory, an implementation of the factory pattern, helps us decouple configuration and inject of 
dependencies from program logic.

The DAO package provies an abstraction over JDBC to simplyfy writing code that interacts with DB.
Declerative transaction managements is an additional feature provided by DAO package.

The ORM package provide intergration for spring with most propular definition of interceptors and pointcuts
and transaction managments can be implemented using Spring AOP.

Spring Web package provides.
  Multipart file uploat functionlity
  Integration with Sturts and other mvc fm
Spring MVC package provide a clean implementation of the MVC model for web application.


4.  Can you give an overview of a webappliction that is implemented using spring related modules?

Different layers of web applicaiton can be implemented using different spring modules. Beauty of Spring
framework is that spring provides great integration support with other non spring open source frameworkss
In case you want to integrate with Framework like AspectJ.
  
  Core Business logic using simple POJO, manged by spring IOC Container.
  Spring ORM to integrate with DB
  Spring JMA to integrate with external interfaces using JMS 
  SPring WS to consuem web services
  WebLayer
    Spring mvc to implements mvc pattern
    Spring Ws to expose web services.
    
  Transaction management using Spring AOP 


5.




