1. What are the general programming practices that are important with respect to 
performance in java?

First and foremost- no premature optimizations. Any optimization decision should be
based on number of past experience. In Donald knuths paper - Progamming waste 
enormous amounts of time thinking about or worrying about, the speed of non critical
parts of their programs, and these attempts at efficiency actually have a strong impact
when debugging and maintenance are considered. We should forget about small optimizations
is the root of all evil. Yet we should not pass up on opportunities in that critical  3%

Minimize number of objects crated :
  Avoid String concatenation: Use StringBuffer.
  Aviud creatubg object in Loops,
  Consider pattern like flyweight
  
Use correct data structures :
  Use the right collections for a situation
  Use a proper domian model.
  
Reducwe web aplication overhead
  small session size.
  Use cacahing where appropriate.
  Close connections and strems.
  
Tuen you database:
  Have indexex.
  Tune your queries
  If you are using hibernate, understand the intenral of hibernate
  Avoid     N+1 selects peroblem
  Enable statistics on Database.
  
What are the best practices in load and performance testing?

Following are the best practices in terms of load and performance testing.

Have clear perforamnce objectives. That's the single most important objecgtiv.
Decide peak Load, Expected Response time. Avaliability required before hand.

An aplication does not work on its own. It connects with a number of external interfaces
A load testing enviromnet should be the same as your production env. We will discuss the 
exact factors involved later in this article.

Validation : Do performace testing as early as possible.

Make it a regular practie to use profilers in developments environment ex jprofiler

Make suer team is not making premature optimizations, Any optimization decision should
be based on number of past experiences.

Have a clear strategy on how to handle expected load. What would be the inital settings
on the application server? Do you plan to use a clustered environment? Do you need a
load balancer?


  
  
  
